README.md, before:

# Jenkins Cookbook

## DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook is available at [https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks](https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks).

This cookbook provides recipes to setup and Jenkins servers and slaves.

## REQUIREMENTS:

Requires a virtual machine from a RightScale managed RightImage.

## COOKBOOK DEPENDENCIES:

Please see the `metadata.rb` for the latest dependencies.

## KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

Jenkins currently runs as root user. This is required for using the
VirtualMonkey test framework. Once the test framework is fixed to run as a
regular user, this limitation can be removed.

## SETUP/USAGE:

* To setup a Jenkins server include `jenkins::install_server` to your runlist.
  This recipe will Jenkins server and configure the server.
* To add a server as a slave to existing Jenkins master server, run the
  `jenkins::do_attach_request` recipe. This recipe will attach the server as a
  slave to the Jenkins master server found in the current deployment.

## DETAILS:

### Attributes:

These are settings used in recipes and tempaltes. Default values are noted.

Note: Only "internal" cookbook attributes are described here. Descriptions of
attributes which have inputs can be found in the metadata.rb file.

#### Jenkins master attributes

* `node[:jenkins][:ip]` - The system IP address to be used for Jenkins server.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:home]` - The home directory for Jenkins.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:system_user]` - The system user name for Jenkins.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:system_group]` - The system group for Jenkins.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:port]` - The port number for Jenkins server.
* `node[:jenkins][:mirror]` - The mirror for downloading jenkins plugins and
  other resources.

#### Jenkins slave attributes

* `node[:jenkins][:slave][:user]` - The slave username to be used for
  connecting to the Jenkins master server.
  The RightScale Instance UUID is used if the name is not specified.
* `node[:jenkins][:private_key_file]` - The private key file used by the master
  for SSH communications with the slave.
* `node[:jenkins][:slave][:attach_status]` - The status of slave attachment.

### Recipes:

#### `jenkins::default`

This is the default recipe that sets up the platform specific attributes.

#### `jenkins::install_server`

This recipe installs the Jenkins server from the mirrors provided by
jenkins-ci.org. This recipe also allows a particular version of Jenkins
installed based on the `jenkins/server/version` input (Please refer to the
`metadata.rb` for more information about this input).

The master node will add tags to announce itself as a master with information
about its listen IP address and Port number. Jenkins slaves will use this
information for communication.

#### `jenkins::do_attach_request`

This recipe attaches a server as a slave to the Jenkins master server found in
the current deployment. It uses the Jenkins API to request the master server to
attach itself as a slave. The slave nodes will add information as tags about its
IP address, mode, and name.

##### Slave mode:

The mode for a slave could be either 'normal' or 'exclusive'. The slaves in
'normal' can be used to run any jobs. The slaves in 'exclusive' mode can only
run jobs that are tied/restricted to themselves. The default mode for a slave
will be 'normal' unless otherwise overridden.

##### Slave name:

Jenkins master uses the name to identify slaves and restrict jobs to a
particular slave. This name will be chosen to be the RightScale Instance UUID
if it is not specified in the inputs.

### Templates:

* `jenkins_user_config.xml.erb` - The Jenkins user configuration XML.
* `jenkins_system_config.erb` - The Jenkins system configuration file.
* `jenkins_config.xml.erb` - The main Jenkins configuration XML.

## LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved. All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.

Commit message:

jenkins default version set to 1.500
Updated the default jenkins version to 1.500.  Also updated the
comments and description fields to show other versions of jenkins that
work in master-slave

README.md, after:

# Jenkins Cookbook

## DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook is available at [https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks](https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks).

This cookbook provides recipes to setup and Jenkins servers and slaves.

## REQUIREMENTS:

Requires a virtual machine from a RightScale managed RightImage.

## COOKBOOK DEPENDENCIES:

Please see the `metadata.rb` for the latest dependencies.

## KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

Jenkins currently runs as root user. This is required for using the
VirtualMonkey test framework. Once the test framework is fixed to run as a
regular user, this limitation can be removed. Jenkins version 1.500 required to have
master-slave work properly. The following versions also work: 1.520, 1.525, 1.535

## SETUP/USAGE:

* To setup a Jenkins server include `jenkins::install_server` to your runlist.
  This recipe will Jenkins server and configure the server.
* To add a server as a slave to existing Jenkins master server, run the
  `jenkins::do_attach_request` recipe. This recipe will attach the server as a
  slave to the Jenkins master server found in the current deployment.

## DETAILS:

### Attributes:

These are settings used in recipes and tempaltes. Default values are noted.

Note: Only "internal" cookbook attributes are described here. Descriptions of
attributes which have inputs can be found in the metadata.rb file.

#### Jenkins master attributes

* `node[:jenkins][:ip]` - The system IP address to be used for Jenkins server.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:home]` - The home directory for Jenkins.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:system_user]` - The system user name for Jenkins.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:system_group]` - The system group for Jenkins.
* `node[:jenkins][:server][:port]` - The port number for Jenkins server.
* `node[:jenkins][:mirror]` - The mirror for downloading jenkins plugins and
  other resources.

#### Jenkins slave attributes

* `node[:jenkins][:slave][:user]` - The slave username to be used for
  connecting to the Jenkins master server.
  The RightScale Instance UUID is used if the name is not specified.
* `node[:jenkins][:private_key_file]` - The private key file used by the master
  for SSH communications with the slave.
* `node[:jenkins][:slave][:attach_status]` - The status of slave attachment.

### Recipes:

#### `jenkins::default`

This is the default recipe that sets up the platform specific attributes.

#### `jenkins::install_server`

This recipe installs the Jenkins server from the mirrors provided by
jenkins-ci.org. This recipe also allows a particular version of Jenkins
installed based on the `jenkins/server/version` input (Please refer to the
`metadata.rb` for more information about this input).

The master node will add tags to announce itself as a master with information
about its listen IP address and Port number. Jenkins slaves will use this
information for communication.

#### `jenkins::do_attach_request`

This recipe attaches a server as a slave to the Jenkins master server found in
the current deployment. It uses the Jenkins API to request the master server to
attach itself as a slave. The slave nodes will add information as tags about its
IP address, mode, and name.

##### Slave mode:

The mode for a slave could be either 'normal' or 'exclusive'. The slaves in
'normal' can be used to run any jobs. The slaves in 'exclusive' mode can only
run jobs that are tied/restricted to themselves. The default mode for a slave
will be 'normal' unless otherwise overridden.

##### Slave name:

Jenkins master uses the name to identify slaves and restrict jobs to a
particular slave. This name will be chosen to be the RightScale Instance UUID
if it is not specified in the inputs.

### Templates:

* `jenkins_user_config.xml.erb` - The Jenkins user configuration XML.
* `jenkins_system_config.erb` - The Jenkins system configuration file.
* `jenkins_config.xml.erb` - The main Jenkins configuration XML.

## LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved. All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.
